Pick at least three of the assigned artist statements for the week.  Discuss how these statements enhance, amplify, or shed significant light on your understanding of contemporary art in general.   Offer a brief quote for each artist.  The artists do not have to be related necessarily, but if you can find some sort of interconnection between them, that would be optimal.

I've chosen 3 relatively unlinked artists; Robert Motherwell, Douglas Davis, and Kenneth Noland.

Robert Motherwell claims that "the aesthetic is the sine qua non for art: if a work is not aesthetic, it is not art by definition", which I think would be an extremely contentious statement in the art microcosm. He goes on to state that the funciton ofthe aesthetic becomes the medium, the focus through which feeling is "condensed into an object of perception". "The qualities of an object constitute its felt content"- this is a radical thing to say when most other modern artists were focusing on the opposite- on making the aesthetics of a piece vague enough to deliver all power of interpretation to the viewer(see the Davis paragraph). He says something very introspective and striking- 'the most common error among the whole-hearted abstractionists nowadays is to mistake the medium for an end in itself, instead of a means". I completely agree- the fatal flaw in abstractionism, if the artist gives in, is this. To focus on randomness, differentness, breaking with representationalism for the sake of breaking; then, expecting that in and of itself to give meaning to the work.

The second artist is Kenneth Noland, who focuses less on the overarching philosophy of art, and instead focuses more on the micro- the movements, the physical space around the canvas. Specifically, he talks about the materials used- the kind of paints, the canvas, the reach of his own body(he refers to De Kooning saying "he only wanted to make gestures as big as his arm could reach"). FOr instance, the texture of the paint can influence how the different sectinos of the work interact- "the constrast of tactility". He also talks about how this in combination with differing opacity levels can affect feelings. I found this interesting as most other artists get realllly abstract, while he's taking it back to the physical layer, and how that pushes into the spiritual layer. He also talks about symmetry,  aspect ratio of his works, and overall size. All this discussion of the space the art takes up is interesting, as it's almost like the abstract artists, and the artwork of the era, trying to push into the real- " Once the battle for space was won, we felt we could begin to paint smaller, more compactly". While representational art was large to portray more detail, abstract art was large to garner influence and fight for visual impact.



Lastly, Douglas Davis poses an extremely interesting manifesto that conveys not only meaning in its word, but also in its structure. Due to the indentation, and the seemingly nonsensical order of the lines, one could approach it like a puzzle, or a cipher- skip lines, mash things together to find meaning. In essence, it becomes a metaphor for his(and everyone's) art- meaning is derived from the interpreter, and the way that that message reception is done. While some works are more overt, like representational art, what is read into it is still firmly the domain of the viewer. And for contemporary and modern art that is extremely abstract, it is solely up to the viewer to derive meaning, almost like this manifesto. The indentation, the punctuation, the grammar is all scrambled- every other line is capitalized, and the second to last line uses the only first-letter capitalization. There's a random bit italicized. As to the actual words Davis uses, due to the randomness, it's hard to tell how he wants to use them-which I suppose is the point.  "The Camera is a Pencil / a hand hold here" could be saying that the method of capturing life(camera) is a means of grasping a hold of life and its meaning, of acquiring for the sake of spreading. Now, "burn the manuals" is italicized, which could be a ruse into making us think it's important. Otherwise, it's decrying the given way of doing things, the typical- it's deriding the "Read The Fucking Manual"(RTFM) way of thinking(pardon the swearing). It's arguing "against counting measuring calculating", arguing against overdoing it, overthinking it, making the object artificial in its meaning by trying to falsely create it.